despite appearances this video is
actually filmed with natural sunlight
streaming in from behind the camera so
if my appearance changes and if the
color of this wall behind me changes
it's not my fault I'm posing here a
political and historical discussion in
response to some statements made by
another contributor here on YouTube who
raises the interesting and important
question of whether or not we should
evaluate the history of post-world war
to japan in terms of Okinawa being an
American colony in terms of Japan's
status as this sort of victim of an
American occupation in that period and
he does so with intelligent and
reasonable and factual points he
presents a series of facts about the
American military presence in Okinawa
and those facts would be shocking to
anyone who wasn't already familiar with
that chapter of history and rightly so
and the conclusion he comes to although
useful is limited and misleading in
talking about politics it's never
sufficient to just come to an ethical
conclusion and the reason for that is
the political science unlike any other
science and and many people would say
that political science is not a
legitimate science in political science
we do have to look at questions of
context and comparison in looking at
what was happening in Japan ed is really
relevant to make a comparative statement
about what was going on in the same
period in Korea in Vietnam in mainland
China because that context was shaping
the decisions the motivations and the
fears of the historical actors in the
equation now other Sciences don't work
that way this is one of the reasons why
there's such a strange mismatch between
talking about agriculture as a science
and agricultural policy as something
that governments do and determine um
Okinawa is referred to in the video I'm
respond to here as a location of
tremendous strategic importance I want
to start by saying there's a bit of a
chicken and an egg problem there yes
Okinawa is of strategic importance
because that is where they chose to
invest untold millions of dollars to
build that base however is the island
itself of some kind of intrinsic
strategic importance it's it's
misleading to say that why was Okinawa
overtime increasingly the center of
American military operations during the
Cold War period very simple answer and
it's very sad and it changes the whole
tone of the discussion for why the
Japanese government through so many
successive prime ministers embraced this
plan and that was the fear of nuclear
war the reason why the Japanese did not
want the main American military presence
to be on Hokkaido or anywhere near Tokyo
or any other major population center
they were planning for worst-case
scenarios that involve nuclear war the
early name it's not even a code name the
publicly used name for the American
strategy Japan was the nuclear umbrella
and for many decades the nuclear
umbrella was no joke it's very easy now
to look back at that history and to
characterize what the Americans and
Japanese did with Okinawa in very
negative terms as being unnecessary
unmotivated as having terrible negative
consequences and no positive
consequences but the fear of nuclear war
and planning for the worst-case scenario
shaped those decisions now was Japan
justified in being afraid of what is now
North Korea being afraid of military
aggression from the Koreas during the
Cold War period yes and they're still
afraid today did you payin have reason
to be afraid of Russia during the Cold
War period well believe it or not the
answer is yes and
most Westerners forget that side of the
history but Stalin in the end of World
War two his army was rapidly progressing
from north to south and occupying more
and more of Japan the northernmost part
of Japan had been called karo futo or
cycle and island as it's now called and
the loss of cyclin island was a serious
blow not even to the Japanese Empire
just to the Japanese nation in terms of
sheer numbers of people around 1945
Okinawa had fewer than 600,000 people I
forget now maybe five hundred fifty
thousand thousand eighty thousand cover
photo the northernmost big island that
Japan occupied had 400,000 Japanese
citizens and when the Russians occupied
it every single one of the Japanese
citizens was extirpated was kicked out
suddenly became homeless so the entire
Japanese population was expelled from
car photo if we're talking about the
sort of price of defeat in World War two
what the Japanese saw happen to their
northernmost island to curfew tow that
really demonstrated them how serious the
threat was of Russian occupation of
Russian annexation and so on in terms of
the Japanese surrender to American
occupying forces
the alternative was to surrender to the
Russians and if they had persisted
further in the war it is very likely
that Japan would have ended up with the
situation parallel to what we know in
terms of the split between North Korea
South Korea the Russians would have
continued to conquer further south and
then whatever areas of Japan they
occupied they would have established as
a Russian client state similar to East
Germany and so on it would have been a
communist government under Russian
occupation in one part of Japan and then
whatever portion of Japan the United
States controlled they would have done
something or another with so the hard
decisions of foreign policy are made in
these types of terrifying contacts where
the fear of nuclear war is real the fear
of foreign occupation annexation are
real and you know this often leads to
immoral terrible regrettable decisions
the government's make and it leads to
decisions I mean the other the other
terrible pattern and looking at this
type of political history is that
governments tend to make decisions that
make sense at one point in time given
overwhelming factors that are fleeting
that were only true for a few years or a
few decades but then instead those
policies remain binding for very long
periods of time did japan sacrifice some
of its sovereignty to establish and
maintain american military bases in
Okinawa yes it's easy now to look back
on that decision and sort of ridicule
Japan for having made a terrible
sacrifice well if you look at the long
list of men who held the role of Prime
Minister of Japan in each period of
history many of them not all
revisited the question and reconsidered
the question at each stage of history of
whether or not the American military
presence in Okinawa was really necessary
and obviously that's something that was
reconsidered again after the fall of the
Berlin Wall but during the long period
of the Cold War when the fear of nuclear
war was real and pressing each one of
those political leaders in Japan decided
again and again that yes it was worth
the price to pay and the price did
involve some crimes against humanity it
did involve you know there's a
year-by-year some numbers of murder of
course large numbers of prostitution you
know the sort of social consequences of
having such a huge military presence on
a tiny island ecological environmental
consequences for Okinawa and you know
signing treaties that gave very unequal
powers to the Americans in Japanese
territory yep that was the price to pay
and in the context of nuclear war and in
the context of looking across that
northern border to see what happened to
cover photo in the context of being a
leader of Japan and not just reading
what's going on in the newspapers but if
having handed to you dossiers by the CIA
that are showing you at each juncture
with you know microfilm and secret
photographs that are showing you as a
matter of fact what's happening in North
Korea what's happening in China during
the Great Leap Forward what's happening
in China during the Cultural Revolution
period by period the terrifying threat
of communism as it looked from the
perspective of a prime minister of japan
those are the factors that motivated one
prime minister after another to make
that extraordinary sacrifice to
make that choice to to make the deal
with the American military and Japan did
have the choice they could have made a
different deal with a different power or
at the different set of powers but for
most of the Cold War period the Japanese
definitely felt they did not have anyone
offering them a better deal than the US
military and it was always acknowledged
that if there were a nuclear war the
first target to get wiped off the map in
Japan was going to be Okinawa and that's
why the location is as moderately remote
as it is and that's why by contrast you
didn't say get an enormous military
operation of the same kind in the middle
of Taiwan the US military president I
want is a lot lighter than you think it
is but Taiwan likewise of course was a
very eager military ally that was
desperately afraid of being conquered by
China and you know had real reasons to
cling to American military support and
now you know comparisons are odious I
think it's really worth asking as the
question has been raised by this fellow
in responding to it is worth asking did
japan make the right decision did japan
get a good deal or a bad deal are the
consequences the two immoral or too
terrible to justify the decision made in
terms of the span of the u.s. Empire
around the world Japan certainly didn't
get the worst deal if you'd like a sort
of shocking contrast try to google the
Chagos Islanders also known as the
Chagossians that is a case that the
United Nations has somewhat reluctantly
ruled on as genocide but in that
instance the entire population of a set
of islands was extirpated was k
doubt by the British in order to create
a joint british-american military base
and most reports say that that base is
about 99% American and one percent
British but the British get the blade so
that was a post-world war two cold war
tactic um that's really lamentable and
again one of the reasons why it's
lamentable is that we have to consider
it in terms of the context of
alternatives did japan have other
alternatives to consider rather than
turning okinawa into a sort of enormous
aircraft carrier for the US military
yeah they had some and i think at any
juncture in that history you can look at
what those options were it's a history
of negotiations in from one decade to
the next between the japanese government
in the US military and they did sign new
and different agreements one of my
textbooks here simply titled The Clash
baile Faber it goes through each and
every set of negotiations where the
Japanese in the u.s. reevaluate who's
committed to do what but you know the
Japanese were not sleep walking through
this arrangement with the US and they
certainly were not trapped into it
against their will they were trapped by
terrible circumstances in the Cold War
Thailand is a really interesting case
study and you'll see some of the same
kind of social problems created by a
massive military presence during the
long period of US military what's the
right word to use during the remarkably
long history of the Americans bombing
Vietnam Cambodia and Laos of course they
had aircraft carriers floating in the
ocean off the east coast of Vietnam but
it was much more cost effective to build
military bases and air force bases on
the other side of Vietnam
which is to say northeastern thailand
now as with the question of okinawa you
have a very short discussion a very
short analysis if we just look at this
in terms of morality if we're only
asking the question what the thai
government did is it moral or immoral
especially when you look at Thailand's
history with Cambodia it's very easy to
say this was immoral this was bad
discussion but again we're kind of
dehumanizing the actors then we're
omitting the really important questions
of what were the alternatives what was
the contacts what were the motivations
that shaped that decision the Thailand
made all of the San plateau the San
plateau is a huge area of northeastern
thailand all of the San plateau became
encrusted with US military bases and uh
on the coast near the resort town that
is now called Pattaya there was also a
deep-water docking facility used for
submarines including nuclear submarines
so you had the US Navy the US Air Force
the CIA and a huge military presence in
this part of northeastern thailand and
the consequences for the thai economy
for thai culture i really do think have
been more dramatic than the consequences
for Okinawa okido not to diminish what
happened Okinawa but in terms of the the
culture of mass prostitution many
published sources have observed look the
long American military presence during
the Vietnam War and afterwards as the
press the case in Cambodia this had this
effect of commercializing prostitution
and Thailand like never before creating
the link between prostitution and and
international tourism and what have you
of course I'm not saying there was zero
prostitution country before but this
transformed Thai culture in many ways
and yes as was complained about in
Okinawa when you have that big military
presence there
there's also a local cost in blood the
types of guys who work for the CIA
during the Cold War period especially
all sorts of different people the guys
who wear a suit and tie and fly over
from Washington DC those are the guys
you see on the news but the CIA works
with a lot of local contractors one of
the pieces of slang used during the Cold
War period was knuckle draggers when the
CIA would use the same people in north
africa in latin america in tibet they
would reassign people from one covert
operation to another around the globe
and that was one of the reasons why they
often had shockingly little cultural
sensitivity or local awareness the guys
who showed up and started killing and
torturing people in Thailand might have
just gotten off an airplane from
nicaragua or any other theater where the
US was deploying operatives and unlike
the presence in okinawa which was
predominantly the professional US
military the american presence in ihsan
in northeastern thailand that was
largely a CIA led war or series of wars
because there was first there was the
early Vietnam period then later the
separate Wars in Laos and Cambodia
Cambodia is very complicated but legally
the u.s. treated that as two separate
Wars they divided into two zones two
different code names not worth the
dressing into here but yeah let's be
real when you sacrifice your sovereignty
and make an agreement with a foreign
power to allow military occupation
within your own country build military
base in your country there is a price in
blood yes there's also prostitution and
people get pregnant
dead bodies turn up in strange places
and it is no joke and there can be
military investigations that could be
military tribunals but all of the
government's making these agreements
japanese government eyerman i think they
all understood how deadly serious these
agreements were now in thailand's case
in contrast of japan nuclear war was not
the most likely threat they weren't
primarily afraid of nuclear bombardment
but they were terrified of the direct
and imminent threat that Thailand would
be conquered by Vietnam you may not know
this but in the later stages of the
Vietnam conflict if you like under
Richard Nixon when Nixon was in some
ways negotiating peace and in some ways
just negotiating a new period of warfare
for which he's heated by historians he's
hated and despised but almost everyone
who writes about this period of history
Thailand was put in the surreal position
of being told by the United States thank
you for your support thank you for this
enormous military presence you provide
us with for decades and decades since
the end of World War two thank you for
you know allowing us to use these
military bases in our war against
communism or war to defend you from
Vietnam but now now that Nixon has made
a new special agreement things are going
to change slightly and the United States
and Thailand will henceforth jointly
support Pol Pot and the Khmer Rouge the
most notorious communists in the history
of Asia even compared to the standard
for bloodshed set by the Soviet Union
mainland china etc Paul Pott in the
Khmer Rouge are especially despised now
several of the national leaders of
Thailand of course were shocked at this
state of affairs and there was some
degree of democratic debate and dissent
in Thailand
but why are we supporting this American
policy in Cambodia and again if our
analysis is just morale is just ethical
then it's going to be a short analysis
if you ask the question was it moral for
Thailand to support Papa in the Khmer
Rouge no it's completely immoral it's
completely unethical ethically it's the
wrong decision however if we're willing
to think sympathetically about the
decisions made by political leaders put
ourselves in their shoes look at the
historical context and say what
motivated this then we get a very
different perspective if you were the
prime minister of thailand and you sit
down with a representative the american
government who has CIA dossiers with
them puts them down on the table and he
says to you look here's the game plan
you may not like Paul Pott you may not
like the Khmer Rouge we don't like them
much either but Paul Pott is anti
Vietnamese he's communist but he's
fighting against communist Vietnam so as
long as we're supporting Pol Pot that's
increasing the distance between the
vietnamese army and Thailand's borders
and if we give up supporting the Khmer
Rouge if Thailand asks the United States
to withdraw its you its military
presence from me San from northeastern
thailand then guess what happens the
Vietnamese finally defeat Pol Pot the
Khmer Rouge because Vietnamese want many
victories but the border the border
moved back and forth more decades of
civil war what you don't want what
Thailand doesn't want is the Vietnamese
Army being in western Cambodia sitting
on the Thai border a two-day march or
Bangkok able to conquer Bangkok at any
time you don't want to be in that
position and you definitely don't want
to be facing that threat with anything
less than the absolute maximum
American military presence in every tiny
v Harbor on every toy Air Force Base
maintaining those vietnam-era military
installations in northeastern telling so
yes the sacrifices made were real the
ethical dilemmas were real and the
ethical consequences were real thailand
in many ways thai culture was
transformed by a sort of american
military occupation if you use the word
occupation in more ways than one but the
enormous American military presence in
Thailand that was continuous from the
end of World War two right up until Bill
Clinton this had huge consequences for
Thailand and it's very easy now to look
back at that history and and sort of
sneer at the fear of nuclear war as if
it could have never happened it's easy
to look back now at what why would
Thailand be afraid of Cambodia Cambodia
such a poverty-stricken powerless nation
it's easy even to sort of laugh at the
idea that Vietnam was organized
militarily capable of conquering
Thailand in that period and that they
had motivation to do so easy to laugh
but those things now when you look at
each historical period when those
decisions are made in context you will
feel sympathy for the devil you will
feel sympathy for people who are just as
despicable as Richard Nixon including
Richard Nixon himself because you'll see
decisions they've made see what
motivated them will shape them and
you'll see how few alternatives that
things are changing right now things as
just mentioned things really didn't
change even under Bill Clinton when I
when I went to university
first time around Bill Clinton in the
United States were still supporting Pol
Pot in the Khmer Rouge in Cambodia and
Pol Pot is not a title it's one man's
name it was the same guy the same Pol
Pot was still going to get massages in
northeastern thailand in places like
ubon ratchathani and udon thani in ubon
ratchathani you can go to a massage
parlor that as a photograph of Paul Pott
as one of their former regular customers
up on the wall and guess what post it
wasn't unknown the US military American
soldiers were going to the same massage
parlors the US military bases that were
directly providing military supplies to
paul potts army were right there these
operations were top secret but they were
completely flagrantly out in the open
okay it's no mystery there's a film you
can watch it's probably available within
YouTube called Cambodia colon the
betrayal by John Pilger pilger as pilg
er um some of Pilcher's films are very
poor in quality but that particular film
it's documentary film that's quite good
and that just looks at the reality of
American support for Papa umarov's in
that period one of the most tragic
aspects is that these alliances these
military and policy decisions that were
made for short term reasons or short
term fears had such terrible long-term
consequences once Thailand was in bed
with the US Army their whole priority
was try to keep the American army there
to try to maintain the same level of
military preparedness that had existed
while the Vietnam War was at its hottest
point afterwards because for Thailand
that was a defensive not an offensive
concern they didn't want to conquer
Vietnam but they absolutely wanted to
keep that military presence there at all
costs to defend themselves and as bad in
a moral as that may have been at that
time what were the alternatives
Thailand didn't have the option of
making a military alliance with India to
serve the same purpose it would be a
very different world if they had I don't
mention India as a random example when
you look at the history of Cambodia and
ask yourself what if how could things
have been better military intervention
from the Indian Army was a real
possibility India could have made the
decision and and probably India could
have signed an agreement with Vietnam at
many points India could have in theory
occupied Cambodia it's it's very easy to
say of course looking back okay well
what if India and Thailand had tried to
solve this problem instead of Thailand
in the USA I don't say this to make
excuses for anyone I don't say to
glorify the US Army if India had
deployed an enormous military presence
in Cambodia there would have been
prostitution there would have been
massacres perhaps small-scale but yeah
there would have been serious violence
there would have been a cost in blood
and they're also would have been a
tremendous cultural impact now probably
would have been better than what
actually happened however I'm just
trying to reiterate that the price of
this type of military pact is still very
real and quite terrifying for the people
involved in making today Shinzo Abe a in
Japan is trying to make a military
alliance with India phase one of the
military alliance is already a reality
they already have signed agreements by
the way Shinzo Abe a is looking at
military alliances with India with
Australia even Mongolia believe it or
not Shinzo Abe a is looking at trying to
have a more balanced set of pan
democratic military relationships
instead of relying so heavily in the
United States but again
during the Cold War period during the
so-called nuclear umbrella period when
the fear of nuclear warfare was very
real when hostilities with communist
China North Korea said are really hot
and ongoing and when Japan had to look
across the border north to see what was
left of Kara futo to see what society
was like under Russian occupation under
communist occupation just a couple
kilometers away you may forget this what
is the closest foreign country to Japan
it's not Korea that's not China either
the closest border they've got is with
Russia because Russia occupied and still
occupies their northernmost island
during the Cold War Japan did not have
the option of moving away from an
American alliance to instead have an
alliance with India or anyone else you
name it they definitely did not have the
option of instead signing a deal with
Russia when governments make decisions
that sacrifice their own sovereignty
they're doing so with a full awareness
of the price that they are going to pay
South Korea is one of the most saddening
examples to examine but in the in South
Korea this question of prostitution and
so on the South Korean government they
were directly involved in managing
prostitution for US soldiers in the
whole Cold War period after post-world
war two period whatever you want to say
so that wasn't just private sector I
mean in Thailand it was independent
hotels and bars and pimps and so on who
were running that business but in South
Korea right off the bat South Korean
government was so desperate to keep the
American military there that they made a
conscious decision to set up a
prostitution service and start
recruiting women to work in brothels for
US soldiers you know it's not an
accident is it immoral is it shocking
did it you know can you find tragic
all histories connect to that absolutely
it's very sad there are many strange and
heartbreaking stories that came out of
that however South Korean government at
every stage of that history what is the
dossier being put on their desk they're
seeing the terrifying reality of what's
going on in North Korea China changes
from one period to the next but they're
seeing the horrifying reality of what
happened during the Great Leap Forward
of what happened during the cultural
revolution in a way that the general
public never did because they are
getting debriefings directly from the
CIA other intelligence sources about
what's going on in there communism for
them the threat is more terrifying and
more real than it was for average people
who were just reading the newspapers
whenever governments make decisions
based on the worst-case scenario in
retrospect it looks silly because the
worst case scenario didn't happen I
remember reading a policy paper that was
warning that the United States of
America should not plan its oil and gas
industry around the worst case scenario
they should look at average scenarios
typical scenarios likely scenarios and
some range of problems that would come
up because trillions and trillions of
dollars be wasted there be very negative
consequences if the u.s. really put in
place what was necessary to deal with
the absolute worst case scenario for
access to oil and gas on military
matters on horrid brass tacks political
science the worst case scenario is what
you're thinking about when you look in
the mirror every morning before you go
to work for Japan the worst case
scenario was that Okinawa got
obliterated first and foremost by atom
bomb dropping on it for South Korea
still to this day every scenario they
look at for likely military outcomes of
a
North Korea assumes that Seoul the
capital city of Korea will be completely
obliterated not even by nuclear weapons
by conventional bombardment because
North Korea is within firing range of
soul and they are capable of wiping out
that city basically in a heartbeat so
one prime minister after another one
present after another in these countries
had to look at those hard facts make
hard choices and make sacrifices and
very often those decisions considered in
isolation they are unethical they are
immoral they are lamentable but the
moral judgment alone is not enough we
need to engage in a more sophisticated
and complex analysis of why these things
happen